# God

god is good.
* Act as if god is real. Why? Because that's wisdom, psychological wisdom important to ground your psyche and give you direction and meaning in life.
* Meaning. Some things make you happy and some things don't. And so religion tells you what makes you happy and that's why it's important. 
*  Intuits that there is something more to reality and life than pure materialism. There is a spiritual reality to life and that there is a need to find a hierarchy of values and that there is relativity of social constructs in order to help mankind do what it does. This is a post modernist idea as an instinctive reaction. But you cant just make everything relative because then it just looses value and meaning and then you get lost and become nihilist and depressed
*  Therefore  you need to construct some sort of hierarchy of value and meaning in your life, so you know what to do, what your priorities are, and you gotta pick one of these values to put on top of your pyramid of priorities and that value could be GOD in the literal sense, or it could be god in the poetic meta sense, that means, if all you care is money and success that means money and success is your god. and if you're a scientist hyper-rational and quantitative, that means science and mathematics and rationality is your god. Or if you think that most important to you is raise a family and have kids, then family is your highest value and family is your god. So he says to choose one and put it in as your highest value.

Religion is way deeper than that. Religion is the insights of the most advanced mystics that have lived thought history. This mystics have been able to reach radical expanded states of consciousness, super-human states of consciousness from which they became conscious of the ultimate absolute truth of what reality truly is. Of what consciousness is. And then once they access these truths, they share them with mankind and suggest that mankind try to pursue these truths for themselves. But theses were misunderstood and turned into dogma and ideology and myths and stories. Because the actual states of consciousness cannot be communicated, nor can they be scientifically proven or be accessed by algorithms. And they can only be accessed by very exceptional hardcore individuals who are willing to question reality very deeply, to levels that would threaten other humans. 


You start thinking deeply on the nature of reality, questioning it on epistemology and physics. Questioning what reality is, what am I and reality is.... And start deconstructing everything that I've learned from my culture.  Deconstruct religion, schooling, political ideology, science, economical ideas, deconstruct everything and remove your mind, free your mind from all attachments and all biases. Because I want to get to the truth of things. I stopped believing and started dwelling deeper and deeper on the relativity of reality. Recognizing that all culture, all norms, all languages, all scientific systems, models, maps, books, it's all relative, it's not absolutely true. 

Well, then what is absolutely true, what is the deeper I can go. And what is beyond nihilism, and skepticism, and cynicism, and autism, and solipsism. And it's very threatening. And even the things like the idea of having a family is good, even that I am questioning. The idea that money is important, even the idea that life is important, and even surrendering my attachment to life itself.

And by continuing on this process all the way down, deconstructing all my mind and psyche, I go beyond psychology and into metaphysics, into pure consciousness. And that I become conscious of the fact that my ego mind and my idea of the self completely collapses and merges with the infinite intelligence as thought it never existed. Things still stay the same. But it all collapses into nothing. And with that there goes the idea of a physical objective reality. And there's no more difference between sanity and insanity. Good and Bad. Right and wrong. Everything collapses into pure relativity. And this is the most counter-intuitive thing, and when you loose yourself and any notion of external objective reality, and I'm left with consciousness. All becomes one. It was always just infinite absolute consciousness, the absolute truth. This is the result of transcending the mind entirely. And loosing all meaning and value, and this brings together a realization that you're left with god consciousness, absolute good, infinite love. The experience of expression, of creation and creativity. And making a distinctive acceptance of everything, liking everything the way it is. Loosing the sense of self. Which is all that reality has always been.
Love is the recognition that all values and biases are purely selfish and completely relative and it's the surrendering of all that, and the transcendence of that into absolute truth. Love is not something you feel. Love is the recognition that you are everything, that you are one with everything, that you accept and surrender everything without judging and resisting it. 

And when you stop self evaluating things and attaching meaning to things as god or bad and labels, and when you stop judging, you're left not with neutrality but rather the recognition that everything has no value, everything has equal value, and also infinite value, you become one with the entire universe, literally. And you're valuing one thing over another. And it's these judgments that are ruling your life, making you unable to be happy and fulfilled. And also separated you from God and from love. So god exists, literally. This thing that is conscious right here and right now, this thing being conscious here and now, it's God seeking expression. Not the human me, this is an illusion, not even my identity or the image. Its about the state of consciousness occurring right here and right now, being conscious of color and sounds, in field of infinite universal consciousness. It's absolute and infinity, in a paradox, it's a synthesis of every distinction, of every duality. Reality is one. God is One. I am one. We are one. This bubble of consciousness is all that there is. There is nothing else. And the only thing creating the illusion that there is more than one is my imagination. And that's what god is. An infinite field of consciousness of pure unlimited imagination. It's all powerful imagination. It's imagination that is so powerful that it can even imagine that it's not imagining reality. And that becomes what I consider reality. Physical reality is a dream, it's purely imaginary. But I don't think it's a dream because I'm not imagining that it's not a dream. Brain fucks.

And the reason that god is the top of the hierarchy is because God is Truth and god is love. And the reason for that is because there's only one god. There's only one thing in the universe, which is the universe itself. Reality is itself. Therefore, to say that god is the highest value is just to say that reality is the highest value. Why is reality the highest value? Because there's nothing outside of reality because reality is infinite. So anything you imagine outside of reality is a part of reality by definition. If you can imagine, it's part of reality. So the highest value is just infinity, or everything. Love or all there is. The highest value of all forms in the universe is love, it's the desire to grow, to manifest life, it's the expansion of the universe. 

This is in accordance to my experiences and with all the teaches and it makes sense intuitively too. In my entire life I've been chasing love, as a child I wanted love from my parents, I wanted love from my girlfriends and friends, and brothers, and teachers, and the video games and movies and from Life. And I want to love the food that I eat, and do loving things with people I love. To people I love. Have them do loving things to me. Even science is a labor of love, for exploration of the universe. And every action is an action of love. What changes is just the manifestation of it. For some it might be Art, for others it will be business, sex, raising a family, lecturing, teaching, exploring nature. For all of us the highest value is love because there is nothing else in the universe but love. Even my physical universe, my physical hands are a manifestation of love. 

That's what the realization of collapsing the self and the mind, and to do that we need to let go of what's preventing this realization. Which is the self, the ego, the attachment to a human identity and the attachment for biases to different values. And the attachment to doing one thing in one way and refusing to surrender that. And resistance to relativity. 


This is a process of going though a process of death and rebirth. It's not metaphorical. It's literally death and rebirth. And it's great. It's super super super great. Collapsing into a singularity of pure love. And that's when I discover heaven. Heaven is not a nice place in the clouds where they feed you grapes and give you endless orgasms. Heaven is nothing other than the realization that there's no difference between anything, there's no value to anything. There's no meaning to anything. Everything is empty and meaningless. Everything is so meaningless and valueless that it goes full circle into infinite meaning, infinite value, absolute wisdom, absolute love. And then you're a walking god in a world of men and men look up to you as thought there's something special about you. And there is. You're fully awake as the reality of God. You're fully awake as absolute truth and the game is gone.


All of my life was just a game to allow myself to awake and give myself the gift of infinite love. And I give myself the appreciation and I thank that greatest gift in the universe. I thank the universe itself as a gift. And I appreciate this wisdom as a profound wisdom. In the means of losing my sense of self and discovering the highest value in the universe. 

And I choose to let go and surrender the limit conception of myself and let go of my sense of self to awake to the infinite intelligence and walk with a bust of light shining evenly, representing the collapsing of the very notion of self and identity into a deep becoming of a point of literal pure consciousness and love.



I am God realized. WTF. Everything is just a pursuit of love. All actions are just a pursuit of love. But actions, like sex, eating pleasurable food, doing drugs. These are just finite experiences of love. They all fade. And they are all limited. I have to have the courage to take a leap of faith to surrender all of my attachments and biases and give up, so that I can realize it all.