# Which people would fit into this life?

* [[What kind of people do I admire?]]
* [[What kind of people do I want to be friends and spend a significant time with?]]
* [[How do I want my social life to look like?]]


Each folk has a very distinct ideal concept of woman corresponding to its racial nature.
It is difficult to sum up in one word everything that German man relates to the ideal image of woman in terms of loftiness, nobility and beauty. One of the most fitting words for the totality of all the virtues and advantages of German girl and the girl woman is the word charm.
Charm means a natural, uniform, physical beauty. Unhealthy distortion of natural beauty, unnatural muscle athleticism, unnatural castigation of body, unfeminine masculinization or spiritualization of the body stand in contradiction to charm. This natural beauty is shaped, promoted and preserved through robust movement in air, sun and water. The charm of the female body radiates in fresh, happy games and dances, in female physical exercise and gymnastics; it enlivens celebrations and holidays, psychologically enriches the community and transmits highest values above all to the man. For the girl and woman herself, however, there lies therein wellsprings for fulfillment and perfection of her deepest essence. Genuine Nordic art of every millennium displays a mirror of this female charm.
Charm simultaneously means a mental-psychological bearing which expresses itself in manifold forms. Charm expresses the female harmony of mental and psychological forces, the gentle harmony of reason and mood. The meaning of all female life fulfills itself in the kind, caring loving and always helping mother and housewife. The art of all of German history has again and again celebrated precisely this inexhaustible depth of German female feeling, of German mother's love, of selfless, love-fulfilled devotion and the immeasurable wealth of the German woman's soul. And if one speaks of the charm of a girl or of a woman, then the psychological sincerity is also expressed by precisely this term.
The German woman, however, should not and does not want to only be a good mother and housewife. In the orient, the woman was often only a birthing machine and maid. The German woman wants to simultaneously, knowing and understanding, stand at the side of her husband as comrade and coworker. She wants to share the husband's cares, tasks and work, yes, she wants to stimulate and fertilize. The German woman hence does not exhaust herself in superficial beauty and fleeting charms. Rich spirit and deep understanding for all things in life radiates from her charm. She does not just take care of the table, rather she shapes the culture of the house, the style of the residence, the family's manner of
21

life. Hence clear intellect and practical sense also radiate simultaneously from the charm of the German girl and the German woman.
The woman is the bearer of new life, the protector of her folk's blood and kind for distant generations. She must guard the purity of the blood, maintain discipline and proper manner, ward off poison and decay. The most sacred obligation and the greatest pride lies therein for each girl and each woman. For each man this means immeasurable responsibility toward his folk. The deepest essence and the most beautiful decoration of female charm lies in this purity of blood and kind. The woman becomes a participant in divine powers as the bearer of new life. Through her own blood, she is inseparably bound to the folk's eternal life.
The German world-view and life-view also grows from German blood and German kind. The woman is natural bearer and teacher of a world-view and life- view to her children fitting for her kind. She gives them life. But she is also the first, closest, natural one to solve for her child the riddle of life, to lead them into the little and larger worlds of divine creation. The woman opens the child's eyes and their view for the manifoldness of this world and in the process she herself becomes ever richer inwardly. She teaches to differentiate between good and evil, beautiful and ugly, noble and base, useful and harmful. But she also lets her children surmise the eternal relationships of family, folk, homeland and Führer, of workers, peasants and soldiers, of war and peace and the eternal laws of life. The woman also finally leads her children to the faith in a divine power, a "dear God", who lives above us. In this emersion in natural, genuine and deep world-wide, in this familiarly with the divine order of creation, the woman herself finds that inner strength and depth, that richness of the heart, which especially typifies the German woman.
Natural beauty and health, purity of blood, richness of feeling, clear sense, genuine, deep world-view - those are the gifts and advantages that radiate from the charm of the German girl and German woman.
To preserve and increase these advantages is the pride, the striving and the obligation of each girl and each woman. To win and keep such a girl and such a woman as the mother of his children and as life comrade, is the yearning and the unconditional will of each man. A folk, however, in which the radiance of this female charm is united with the soldierly bearing of the man, will live and blossom forever.[[charm]]