# The Practitioner’s Perspective

One of the advantages the outside expert brings is perspective. And one of the hallmarks of creativity is the ability to see problems differently, and thus find solutions others cannot see. 

To bring our perspective and problem-solving skills to bear we must be allowed time and freedom to diagnose the client’s challenges in our own manner. 

Design is not the solution – it is the process. 
We cannot be effective, responsible designers if we allow the client to impose his process, or truncate or otherwise marginalize ours.

But let us not place all the blame on the client. Doctors face self-diagnosed patients as often as we do, but we are far more likely to proceed with such a flawed approach than any medical practitioner. 

We let the client dictate and drive the diagnostic process, usually because we have not bothered to understand, formalize and explain our own. 

We have not taken control on this issue. We have not correlated our likelihood of high-quality outcomes to working from a defined and meaningful diagnostic process. 

We have not made this case in our own minds and we have not made it to the client. So the client intervenes and fills the void in our own working process by deciding how much information and access we will be allowed in the pitch. 

Lacking our own process, we have little means to push back and argue for a better way.

**To reverse the trend and live up to our professional obligation to diagnose first, we must map out and formalize our own diagnostic process.**

Then, when we are next in a situation where the prospective client is dictating to us, we must make the case that the consistency of our outcomes is rooted in the strength of our process, therefore we must be allowed to employ it.
[[3. The Nature of Successful Clients]]