this could easily be the end of my journey is the EUA. trough the time that ive been here, much was acocmplished. Ive started small, having just wrapping up and while writing on the plane, id ike to make notes of everything that i've learnt. It could also be a beginning of a new era. For I'm using this moment to think. Since there isn't anytime better but now. I've still got 6 hours of flight to reach Guarulhos and thus, thinking for six hours might put me years ahead in terms of what I could accomplish in clarity and definite of purpose. In the end the results do not matter as much as what am I writing about. Thus, keeping my mind sharp and practicing the art of writing is more important than the text being written. Even tho i am trying my best everyday to write things that matter, to accomplish things that matter, i am starting to come to the conclusion that my value is for who I am rather than for what I do. And then, it becomes important to think in terms of who Am I, and what do I want, and what are the laws of nature that i am willing to work together in order to accomplish my long term goals. The dreamer in me wants to have all for the benefit of the soul. It wants to request the best life that i can possibly imagine. And this best life is a myriad of luxury and good things. The hyper-reality of me as a prince, as an aristocrath, as someone who is great, who has achieved the kalos kagaita way of life, this is the person that everyday i am striving to become. A self made, self reliant, and a great soul. These are my current needs, and they can only be accomplish through discipline and virtue. It is already very good. For a 25 years old to be making half a milion dollars an year. Well. Id say that i can do more. What is currently the limits for achievement. How am I able to take the fast lane, to use hacks and cheats to achieve my goals faster. THis means, using the knowledge that is already there. Because the knowledge is available, all it takes is for me to think in a certain way. This burning desire to get rich is latent in me. It moves me to wake up every single day with laser focus, with the energy and power necessary to put in the work and reap the rewards of each action. with efficiency, with purpose, with energy. Yes, it is my purpose to get rich, and only after I get rich is when I can move on to greater tasks. Currently, being rich to me equals being able to afford a porsche, to afford a trophy wife, and my right home. Then I can move on to gathering wisdom. But currently, I am going to do everything that I can to achieve this goal. And this is a commitment, I am putting my honor in game, my self actualization depends on me achieving these three goals. WHy? Because I know myself, and I know that If I achieve these goals, which are the pinnacle of life for me, then I can ahieve whatever I want. Then I can move on to a more benevolent self, to a more self-actualizing persona. But in the spiral dynamics, I cannot move pas the yellow stage if I havn't learned everything about that stage. And right now, the stage yellow requires me to get rich. Only then is when i can move on to become great. With this being said, my whole energy is directed towards that goal. And honestly, I am so grateful to be able to express with clarity what is it that I want, and how am I going to know that I got there. Damn, what a level of awareness. What a level of ckarity. And this is only the beginning. I still have until 42 to retire. My whole life is ahead of me. And the end of my tour in the USA only shows that I am already a great personality. Think of it in terms of the level of respect, community, and achievements. The whole mars college thing was a success. The whole fiber optics thing was a success. The whole salesforce thing is being a success. I am so grateful. Every single day. I am grateful because I am virtuous. And I have a vision and i have a strategy to work towards that vision. I am so grateful.   
