# The Rules of Collaboration
[[7. Framed by Our Mission, We Pursue Our Objective]]
In our firm we will adopt the following policies that will allow us to bring the client closer without sacrificing control.

If we are to replace presentations with conversation and collaboration, this combined act of bringing the client closer while continuing to lead the engagement is vital.

**Strategy First** → 
	* We will agree with the client on the strategy before any creative development begins. 
	* By including the client in our strategic development processes, we will help ensure we never find ourselves presenting creative rooted in ambiguous strategies.
	* We will not develop, nor share with the client, creative of any kind before the challenge has been diagnosed and the strategy prescribed and agreed to.

**Continuous Reference to Strategy** → 
	* Immediately prior to presenting any creative, we will review the agreed upon strategy with the client. 
	* In this way we keep the discussion around the creative focused and measured against the strategy. 
	* Any time we come back to the client to share new ideas or concepts we will set the stage first by reviewing, once again, the strategy that guides us.

**Freedom of Execution** → 
	* We welcome the client’s input on the strategy and in exchange we ask him to grant us the freedom to explore various ways of executing it. 
	* This means we invite him to say, “That blue isn’t bold enough to deliver on our core value of strength.” But we explain that he is not invited to say, “Make it darker.” Suggestions on this front are always welcome, but dictates are not. We value our clients’ insight into marketing strategy, but we need the creative freedom to explore the destinations implied by the strategy. 
	* The client must ultimately approve of our recommendations, and be satisfied with the outcome, but he must also let us explore along the way.

**Fewer Options of Better Quality** → 
	* When we present creative options we will strive to limit them to as few as practical. 
	* There is an inverse correlation between the quantity of creative options we present to the client and the confidence we have in their quality.When we present options we will recognize our obligation to recommend one over the others. We will be careful not to cede our expertise by asking, “Which one do you like?” 
	* We will direct all discussions around the creative back to the strategy and ask if we are accomplishing our goals. It is an abdication of our responsibility and our expert position in the relationship to share all of our endeavors with the client and then ask him to choose.

**Only We Present Our Work** → 
	* Whenever our diagnostic findings, strategic recommendations or creative solutions are presented to anyone in our client companies, it will be personnel from our firm that does so. 
	* Our key client contacts may assist us, but our work does not get presented without our involvement. One of the benefits we bring to our clients is the advantage of an outside perspective, one that is not saddled with perceptions of bias or a hidden agenda. 
	* We will not allow proper guidance to be sacrificed at the altar of company politics.


# Our Misplaced Fear of Policies, Rules and Routine


While we dislike routine, the client – and ultimately, any consistency of success – demands it. We must, therefore, reconcile ourselves with the fact that routine will be imposed. 

Once we accept this we can face the question,
`“Would we prefer to have routine imposed on us, or would we prefer to be the ones who take the lead and define the rules of the engagement?”`

Some of us will enforce the above rules of collaboration as policies and others will view them merely as helpful guidelines. 

For many of us, considering adopting policies is akin to a claustrophobic person considering entering a coal mine. One of the costs of creativity is the abhorrence of routine – the dislike of systematic ways of thinking and behaving. 

This characteristic of our hardwiring that contributes to our creative problem-solving abilities keeps us from establishing policies on how we work. It causes us to perpetuate the process void, that by implication, we invite the client to fill.

There will come a day when we are happy to hear from the client, “Ahhh, of course!” instead of the previously desired, “Oh – I love it!” 

On that day we will know that we have been working collaboratively and we will know that our addiction is behind us. 

Then we can work on removing the presentation from the buying cycle, taking us one step closer to eliminating the pitch.