
# The Polite Battle for Control

The control that we need in order to do our best work includes the imperative to bring our own methodology to the engagement. 

Throughout the buying cycle we are constantly gauging whether or not the client recognizes and values our expertise to the extent that he is willing to grant us this control. 

Does he see us as the expert who merits the reins of the engagement, or does he see us as the order-taker supplier that needs to be directed?

Possessing our own formalized diagnostic methods, whether they are proprietary to us or not, goes a long way to our positioning in this matter. Like any other competent professional, it is reasonable to expect that if we address similar problems on a regular basis then we would have a formalized way of beginning the engagement. 

It follows that we would demand to be allowed to follow our own process and not readily agree to use one developed by the client or his procurement people. 

It also follows that when a client comes to us self-diagnosed, we would feel the same sense of obligation to validate that self-diagnosis as any other professional would.

A good client will begin to relinquish control once he has the confidence that the expert practitioner knows more than he does, or has the tools to learn more. **Formalized diagnostic processes are such tools.**

From here forward we will view the act of prescription without diagnosis for what it is: malpractice. 

We will assert the professional’s obligation to begin at the beginning and walk away from those that would have us proceed based on guesses or unvalidated self-diagnoses.